Accretion disk:
the pattern of flow of matter from a normal star to a neutron star or black hole, which is flattened and thus disk-like.

Event horizon:
in a black hole, the point beyond which events cannot be detected. This is the point of no return; an object that falls inside the event horizon can't get out.

Singularity:
in a black hole, the "center point", at which densities, tidal forces, and other physical quantities become infinite. Our current physical theories break down at this point.

"When you approach a black hole; space itself flows faster and faster like
a waterfall.  The point where, if you're swimming near a waterfall, and 
can no longer swim fast enough to not fall (swim = speed of light), that 
is the event horizon."

"perfectly possible to stay alive at event horizon, everything seems normal."

"inner horizon = where matter falling meets matter below it, like water hitting itself as it falls." <- "it's so hot most matter would be vaporized here" <- "one of the most extreme places in the universe, barring the singularity itself"

"singularity is where our understanding of the universe breaks down"


"This might sound like the lamest thing you can do with a black hole, but hear me out.  Black holes emit sound waves.  The sound waves are in B flat but at billions of times lower than the human ear can hear. If a space ship is stopped or stranded near a black hole, these sound waves might start vibrating the sides of the ship.  Not only is this creepy as hell, but if the sensors on the ship have been taken out, this might be the first warning that the ship is in the vicinity of a black hole.  These sound waves carry a lot of energy and are responsible for heating clouds of gas and dust in galaxy clusters.  They might also keep the PC’s from freezing to death while their ship is disabled."

"Enter loop quantum gravity, devised by Abhay Ashtekar of Pennsylvannia State University (PSU) in University Park and colleagues to reconcile general relativity with quantum mechanics. When Ashtekar's team created cosmological models inspired by LQG in 2006, these suggested the universe emerged from the remnants of an earlier universe that was crunched down to a tiny volume by gravity, not from the big bang (see diagram)."

Real-world implications
One of the most promising resolutions, according to Susskind, has come from Daniel Harlow, a quantum physicist at Princeton University in New Jersey, and Patrick Hayden, a computer scientist at McGill University in Montreal, Canada. They considered whether an astronaut could ever detect the paradox with a real-world measurement. To do so, he or she would first have to decode a significant portion of the outgoing Hawking radiation, then dive into the black hole to examine the infalling particles. The pair’s calculations show that the radiation is so tough to decode that the black hole would evaporate before the astronaut was ready to jump in9. “There’s no fundamental law preventing someone from measuring the paradox,” says Harlow. “But in practice, it’s impossible.”
